Hi friends
In this video we are going to learn how to
print the value of a variable
So we can use the printf function to print the value
of a variable and to do that we need to
specify two things in the printf function
One is the format of the variable we need to
specify corresponding format specifier and next is the name
of the variable which we want to print
Now let us see some basic format
specifiers. For integers we have %d and
the syntax to print an
integer variable is printf ("%d",name of integer variable)
Next for float type we have %f and the
syntax to print a float
Variable is printf("%f",name of float variable)
for double
We have the format
Specifier %lf
and the syntax is printf("%lf",name of double variable)
Next
For character data type we have %c and see and
the syntax to print a character
Variable is printf("%c",name of character variable)
Now we can use many format
Specifiers  in the same printf function
Let us see how. If printf function encounters any
format
Specifier for the first time it will take the first
variable after the coma and print it so here for
%d, First Variable var1 will be taken next time
If it sees another format specifier it will take
the second variable after the coma and print it
So for %c, var2 will be taken
and this will continue
So let us see this code here
First
We have the integer variable declaration for i and i is
initialised to 10
Next we will have character variable c created and a
stored in it
Now we have a printf function and it will print
value of i = and in position of this format
specifier %d
It will take the value from Variable i which is
10 so the value of i equal to 10 will be
printed
Next we have another printf function and it will print
value of c = and in position of this
format
specifier %c, it will take the value from
variable c which is a. So the value of c
equal to a will be printed
Now we can also print both variables in a single
printf function like this
So for the first format specifier %c value
from first variable after coma will be taken
So i = 10 will be printed next for
the second format specifier %c
Value from second variable c will be taken and
c=a will be printed
So this is how we can print two variables in
a single printf function
So that's all and thank you for watching this video